# README
# CLI (Command Line Tool) TODO Project

### Details
#### Project Overview:
The project involves the development of a command line tool using the Go programming language. The primary objective is to efficiently retrieve and process the first 20 even-numbered TODOs from a public API. The tool is expected to output the title of each TODO along with information about whether each task is completed or not.

#### API URLs:

**TODO at index 1: https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/todos/1**
**TODO at index 2: https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/todos/2**
Output Format:
The tool should generate an output that includes the title of each TODO and a indication of whether the task is completed or not.

Submission Requirements:
Please ensure that your submission includes both the Go code for the command line tool and the corresponding command line interface (CLI).

# Getting Started:
### 1.Clone the repository:**    

`git clone https://github.com/shoebimran/Cli_Todo_App.git`  

### 2. Navigate to the project directory:  
   
  `cd Cli_Todo_App`

### 3. Install dependencies:
 
  `bundle install`  
  

### 4. Start the Rails server:
 
  `rails server`  
  or  
  `rails s`

## Testing

#### Testing Instructions:
For testing purposes, the project relies on RSpec. To run the tests successfully, make sure that RSpec is installed on your system. Execute the following command in your terminal:  

`docker run -it command_line_todo /bin/bash`  

`bundle exec rspec`

### Docker Usage
The project includes Docker support for easy deployment. Build the Docker image using the following commands:

### Build Docker Image Summary:  
#### Build the Image:  
Open a terminal and navigate to the directory containing the Dockerfile.
Run the following command to build the Docker image:  

`docker build -t command_line_todo .`

####  Run Docker Container  

. To execute the Docker container based on the command_line_todo image, use the following command:  

`docker run command_line_todo`  

When this command is executed, Docker will initiate the container based on the specified image (command_line_todo). The instructions within the image, including the setup and execution of your CLI tool, will be carried out. Any output generated by the CLI tool will be displayed in the terminal where the command is run.    

## Contributing  

Your contributions to the project are highly welcomed! Feel free to participate by submitting issues or pull requests. Your feedback and suggestions are valuable.

Happy Coding! 🚀

